Hello and welcome back.
In this lecture I want to show you how you can draw a class diagram.
Well what I'll be doing is showing you some of the notation some of the symbols that you'll see in a
class diagram so you can understand what the class diagram is trying to represent in terms of the objects
and their relationships.
We can then show you design patterns you can look at the class diagram and you can understand it I a
quick glance what the design pattern is demonstrating how the objects relate.
So again UML is popular for its diagram a graphic and notations.
You have to understand these notations visualization is the most important part of UML.
So you need to understand and kind of at least get an idea of the symbols that are used in the diagram.
The notations again most important elements in the modelling insufficient and appropriate use of notation
is very important for making complete meaningful model.
The model's useless unless its purpose is depicted properly.
Kind of common sense right.
We need to understand the notations you want and learn the notations at the very beginning.
Different notations are available for classes and their relationships.
Each rectangle in a class diagram represents class.
That's the most basic of basic.
You see the class diagram you see a rectangle that means hey that's a class you can represent up to
three aspects of a class.
The name of the class the data members of the class which are the member variables and the methods of
the class.
Those are inside the rectangle themselves so this is the basic notation that you'll see in any formal
diagram you may see one or you may see all three on the left hand side.
What you see is the square right.
That just shows the class name it doesn't show any attributes or any methods.
It's a rectangle the name you want to use this type of representation when more detailed information
is not needed.
Sometimes you just want to show the objects in the system and you don't need to show the attributes
and methods you say want to say hey high level here are the objects that I have that you in that case
you would just use left hand side just a rectangle the middle Iraq angle shows both a name of the object
or the class and the methods in the class and the way that you know it's a method is you have the parentheses
there.
So the square has a method display the plus sign in front of the display means that the method is public.
You don't always see the plus sign sometimes it's it's there sometimes it's not sometimes somebody some
UML diagrams will see the public keyword.
The one thing to understand was UML each variation of the tool used to generate the the diagram has
subtle differences.
Again most of my the same right or all of them have rectangles all of them have three separate components
for attributes and behavior but some of may use plus for public.
Some may use something else for access modifiers it all depends.
It's usually very intuitive to see what's going on.
But the second one is just going to display behavior in the name of class.
The third one is showing the methods attributes and the name of the class the minus sign before the
data member member variable length means that it's it's private right.
And then the colon after the colon you specifying the data type of of the member variable again a rectangle
name.
Member variables in the second component and then the third component in the rectangle.
You have the methods.
That's typical convention with plus or minuses Republican private.
And then you also have one for protected and usually have the type of the variables in the second compartment
for member variables you may have a fourth section.
Again it depends on the tools and the variations.
It's optional to show any additional components.
So sometimes you'll see something like this at the bottom.
Maybe some examples like responsibilities and it'll give a purpose of the class or something like that.
That's not always the case.
I got this diagram from the design patterns book they showed some basic nice illustration with some
basic names right.
So the top is the name the second section.
Public protected or private.
Using plus minus or pound sign the tape type separated by the colon and then you have your methods in
the third compartment here of the rectangle plus minus pound for private.
Public and protected in parentheses after.
And then that fourth component which is not mandatory you don't often see this in most diagrams but
if you do it's usually just some kind of descriptive of the responsibility of the class.
UML notation for access.
As I mentioned you'll see plus minus and pound but you may see other ones as well for four member variables
and methods like and we know the difference between public protected private but you'll see those little
symbols in front of data members are methods to describe axis relationships.
They can also serve relationships as I mentioned.
This gives real proper meaning to the UML model if you don't understand or don't display the relationships
between objects.
It's not as useful.
You would basically just know that there are objects in the system with certain attributes and behavior
the different types of relationships and UML are extents ability which is inheritance you can show an
inheritance relationship and is a you can show association relationships which is aggregation or composition
that has a relationship you can show a dependency relationship which represents a dependency between
two classes and a system.
This is kind of a uses a relationship again when you pass an object to a method or something like that.
Here is how the class relationships are shown in general.
Again there may be slight variations of this.
Don't freak out if you see a little bit of differences.
Well typically aggregation is shown with the diamond symbol and it's it's empty and then composition
will be shown with a diamond from one class to the next filled in right.
So a is an aggregate a aggregates B or B as part of an A.
The first illustration there is composed of B or A contains B type objects.
As with the dark symbol that's the has a relationship.
The bottom two are showing inheritance in dependency inheritance.
You'll see a triangle and the triangle the one that's pointing to would be the base class and the one
that's doing the pointing is the subclass so be is a subclass of a..
In this example dependency uses a relationship.
You have a dash line a depends upon B A uses b something like that and again there might be slight variations.
There is a relationship.
Here's another example.
That is a relationship and a little more detail with a detailed example.
So the arrowhead or the triangle under the shape class means that those classes pointing in the shape
are subclasses from shape so one run and represents the parent element and the other end represents
the child element subclass and because shape is italicized that means it's an abstract class.
You'll see subtle differences in there a lot of the class diagrams were actually put an abstract keyword
in front of that to make it even more clear but pretty simple here to look at really quickly and see
Hey.
Point line and Square are subclasses of base class shape.
Imagine describing this in some kind of paragraph.
It would take you a lot longer and it would be a lot harder to understand.
Has a relationship again whether it's aggregation or composition it's going to slightly vary but in
this case we have the open diamond.
So we're showing aggregation and with this detailed example right we're saying that airport is having
aircraft aircrafts are not part of airport but I can still say that airport has them.
So the unfilled diamond on the right of the airport class indicates the aggregation relationship.
Aircraft either a jet or a helicopter is a relationship is also demonstrated here.
Aircraft is an abstract class because it's italicized
the composition relationship.
Remember it has a relationship but shows when something is part of something else.
In this example we're showing that car has tires as parts so the type relation is depicted by the solid
diamond and you also see a uses our relationship or car uses a gas station.
So that second so the dependency relationship as I just mentioned car uses a gas station it's depicted
by that dash line with an arrow.
A dependency exists between car and gas station again pretty straightforward cardinality.
You can also represent an e-mail diagram.
We'll see it maybe here and there and some of the design patterns but not too much.
It just tells you how many objects another one has still has like zero to one relationship.
One to many or many to many.
So in this example when you have an airport has from zero to any number of aircraft disaster Kerry represents
any number.
So if you're familiar with regular expressions that will that will make sense.
But the asterisk is zero to many.
So an airport can have many aircrafts zero to one on the airport side means that when I have an aircraft
it can be contained by either 0 1 airports or you're not going to have an aircraft in the same same
single airport aircraft at many different airports.
It's either in the air or it's on the air at the airport.
So zero to one and again open diagrams means aggregation but you'll see those little numbers right underneath
on the left hand side of the right hand side depending on what object they apply to zero to many here
and zero to one in this example.
Also another example here is we show that when I have a car it has either four or five tires it may
or may not have a spare tires are exactly on one car.
So you see the one in the Ford for that 5 if there's no cardinality specified then you can't make any
assumption about how many objects there actually are the cardinality tries to represent how many instances
there are for a given class object you also sometimes see a note section and the UML diagram.
It's a little box containing a message.
So in this example it's kind of a description like open diamonds mean aggregation.
It's a note.
It's meant to look like pieces of paper with the right corner folded back.
You often see them with a line connecting them to a particular class indicating they're relating just
to that class.
It's like a little documentation.
No and those are the basic symbols and notation.
This is what you'll need to know to understand some of the design pattern class diagrams that I'm going
to show you.
I'll provide many details we're going to go through many code examples the class diagram is only one
part of showing you how design pattern works but it is it is an essential part and it can help quite
a bit.
So understand these basic notation for class diagrams the relationships the associations some of the
cardinality and the fact that we have a rectangle with the name attributes methods section.
Thank you.